Shawn Zachariah

NASA RMC is an annually held competition held at the NASA
Kennedy Space Center, Florida where teams from different communities and
universities build robots that traverse and mine Martian soil (regolith). NASA’s
ultimate objective for this competition is for the further advancement of Space
Exploration. This in turn, NASA has given college students the task to find
innovative mining techniques to be used for obtaining the water-ice found under
the surface of the Martian soil. As a result, this will allow humans to “live
off the land” or in scientific terms “In-Situ Resource Utilization (ISRU)”. In
the competition, points are awarded based on creative design, amount of regolith
mined, autonomous operation of the robot, and innovative ideas.

This year, the students will be attempting a new design to increase mining
performance and further implementation of autonomous operation. The current
design our team is pursuing is a “bucket ladder mixed with the auger design”
(Figure 2, Figure 3). They are both known for aggressive mining, especially when
working with gravel like substance (icy regolith). The drive system of the robot
is called, “Rocker Bogie” (Figure 4) which is a specific type of drivetrain
famously used by the Mars rover, Curiosity. This drivetrain works best
especially when driving on uneven terrain like Martian soil. We also plan to use
small brushless motors to maintain a lightweight design and give us the extra
power to traverse the Martian terrain. In order to power the robot, we plan to
use Lithium-Polymer battery packs which allow high current draw rate, which
would be ideal for our drive system.


Our team is comprised of 3 sub-teams: Mechanical, Electrical, Autonomy.
Each team is comprised of various disciplines from the Illinois Institute of Technology.

Meet the 2017 Scarlet Space Hawks Team!

Competition objective: Build a fully-functioning mining robot that can traverse
the aggressive Martian terrain.

Team Awards:
Scarlet Space Hawks placed 3rd in the Mining Category (2017)

Our Sponsors

Scarlet Space Hawks is proudly sponsored by the companies below.
Please support these companies and organizations in any way you can, as a
thank you for the incredible support of our team!
